README.md, before:

# @genisense/dlog

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/logworks/dlog.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/logworks/dlog)

Logging designed for development time.
Tired of typing console.log? - '\$ dlog +' logs all named functions. 'dlog -' removes.
Runtime dynamic type checking for hard to find bugs.
Logs as code, not strings.
Useful for large code base investigation. See the execution flows and details fast.

Note Pre-release. [v 0.1.0](#v0.1.0) Usable, likely breaking changes to API coming.

## quick start

    npm i -D @genisense/dlog
    npm i -g @genisense/dlog
    dlog i

dlog i creates two files:

    .dlogrc
    dlog.js

Edit .dlogrc. Set the globPattern and excludes to match your project. (globPattern matches the files/directories given, and exclude sets files you dont want logging added to.)

You are now ready to Log & Roll:

    # Add logging to all files specified in config:
    dlog +

    # Remove logging from all files (again specified in config:
    dlog -

You can also filter on the fly without reloading, for example if running a browser app, at the console:

    # To only log functions named foo or bar
    dlog.filtrate = ['foo','bar']

    # Log every function (that was added according to globPattern config)
    dlog.filtrate = ['*']

logging keeps track of function call paramater types and alerts you when
they change as a type anomoly. for example:

    foo(astring: '', anumber: 42, anarray: [10,20,30])

    # later called with:
    foo(astring: '', anumber: 42, anarray: [10,"20",30])
    # logs :
    type anomoly detected:
    foo.anarray was [numbers] got [numbers, strings]

    # deep object comparison:

    bar ({ a: { b: { c: {astring: '', anumber: 42, anarray: [10,20,30]}}}})
    # later called with:
    bar ({ a: { b: { c: {astring: '', anumber: 42, anarray: [10,20,/\\/g ]}}}})

    # logs:
    type anomoly detected:
    bar.a.b.c.anarray was [Numbers] got [Numbers, Regexs]

## examples

Soon come:

- example integration with other loggers e.g. Winston.
- middleware.
- type checking depth/execution control
- Log server

## workflow

- requires source is under git control. (dlog can potential change a lot of files, so this is a safety feature).
- warns if git is not clean (i.e. un-staged files)
- dlog blats your codebase with logging. Just like console.logs it should not be pushed. To that end we recommend using at least a pre-commit hook (easily done with husky). > dlog ? will halt the commit if an logs are in source folder.
- must run dlog at command line in dir that has package.json and be git initialised.

## release notes

### v0.1.0

- logging packaged as UMD so works for web as well as node.
- \$ dlog i - asks if for web/node and adds logger config accordingly.
- dlog.config.json name changed to .dlogrc.
- optional global logger as standard example in dlogger.js.
- examples - web and node with global and imported/required logging.
- coveralls

### v0.0.7

- Dlog is ready to try but admittedly rough.
- Looking for feedback if you find positive uses and see the potential in the library. - Thanks && enjoy.

## local only npm installation

All global packages really do is allow you to type less at command line!:

    # with globally installed:
    > dlog +/-/?/v/h

    # instead of
    > npm run dlog +/-/?/v/h

Commit message:

8 (#9)
* eat-own-dog-food

* feat(cli): makes auto logging identifier configurable by nameAs in .dlogrc

BREAKING CHANGE: at this stage, poc, prototyping, not adding defence agains malconfiguration.

re #8

* amend

* amend

Co-authored-by: ticaboo <henry@ticaboo.co.uk>

README.md, after:

# @genisense/dlog

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/logworks/dlog.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/logworks/dlog)

Logging designed for development time.
Tired of typing console.log? - '\$ dlog +' logs all named functions. 'dlog -' removes.
Runtime dynamic type checking for hard to find bugs.
Logs as code, not strings.
Useful for large code base investigation. See the execution flows and details fast.

Note Pre-release. [v 0.1.0](#v0.1.0) Usable, likely breaking changes to API coming.

## quick start

    npm i -D @genisense/dlog
    npm i -g @genisense/dlog
    dlog i

dlog i creates two files:

    .dlogrc  // cli configuration.
    dlogger.js  // runtime configuration, customisation.

Edit .dlogrc. Set the globPattern and excludes to match your project. (globPattern matches the files/directories given, and exclude sets files you dont want logging added to.)

You are now ready to Log & Roll:

    # Add logging to all files specified in config:
    dlog +

    # Remove logging from all files (again specified in config:
    dlog -

You can also filter on the fly without reloading, for example if running a browser app, at the console:

    # To only log functions named foo or bar
    dlog.filtrate = ['foo','bar']

    # Log every function (that was added according to globPattern config)
    dlog.filtrate = ['*']

logging keeps track of function call paramater types and alerts you when
they change as a type anomoly. for example:

    foo(astring: '', anumber: 42, anarray: [10,20,30])

    # later called with:
    foo(astring: '', anumber: 42, anarray: [10,"20",30])
    # logs :
    type anomoly detected:
    foo.anarray was [numbers] got [numbers, strings]

    # deep object comparison:

    bar ({ a: { b: { c: {astring: '', anumber: 42, anarray: [10,20,30]}}}})
    # later called with:
    bar ({ a: { b: { c: {astring: '', anumber: 42, anarray: [10,20,/\\/g ]}}}})

    # logs:
    type anomoly detected:
    bar.a.b.c.anarray was [Numbers] got [Numbers, Regexs]

## cli configuration

    "globPattern": "./src/**/*.?(js|jsx|ts|tsx)", //glob for files to include.
    "excludes": "node_modules|\\.test",  // regExp applied to exclude from files found by globbing.
    "module" : "e.g: es2015/commonjs.    - Added on $ dlog i depending on choice of module system",
    "nameAs" : "dlog/whateverLog    - auto added log identifier can be changed to avoid name clashes."

## examples

Soon come:

- example integration with other loggers e.g. Winston.
- middleware.
- type checking depth/execution control
- Log server

## workflow

- requires source is under git control. (dlog can potential change a lot of files, so this is a safety feature).
- warns if git is not clean (i.e. un-staged files)
- dlog blats your codebase with logging. Just like console.logs it should not be pushed. To that end we recommend using at least a pre-commit hook (easily done with husky). > dlog ? will halt the commit if an logs are in source folder.
- must run dlog at command line in dir that has package.json and be git initialised.

## release notes

### v0.1.0

- logging packaged as UMD so works for web as well as node.
- \$ dlog i - asks if for web/node and adds logger config accordingly.
- dlog.config.json name changed to .dlogrc.
- optional global logger as standard example in dlogger.js.
- examples - web and node with global and imported/required logging.
- coveralls

### v0.0.7

- Dlog is ready to try but admittedly rough.
- Looking for feedback if you find positive uses and see the potential in the library. - Thanks && enjoy.

## local only npm installation

All global packages really do is allow you to type less at command line!:

    # with globally installed:
    > dlog +/-/?/v/h

    # instead of
    > npm run dlog +/-/?/v/h
